# Showcase website

## Summary

This website is to showcase who I am and why I want to join Founders and Coders.

## Process

I have some web dev experience from creating my final project at university and
going through the Founders and Coders previous cohort application.

The reason I started these projects so late was due to thinking the application
projects would remain the same however, when I found out the process changed, I
needed more time. This blunder cost me much dev time I could have used to
improve my projects.

Ideally, I would have gone through all the material on the learn page, which
uses freeCodeCamp. Instead, I will go over these after I have submitted my
application.

I started by creating a wireframe of the website I wanted to make. After
implementing this with code, I wanted to add some colour and life to the website
as it is too plain.

I landed on a website with solar system elements since I love the visuals of
space.

I used images on Google as designs and used my code to implement them using the
colours.

The falling stars and starry background were taken from tutorials, as I had no
clue how to create them, but after learning how box shadows were used, I am
confident I could replicate them and have used them extensively on my planets.

The Moon and Earth are my favourites as they stand out in design and
functionality. The Moon's design was referenced, but the Earth was something I
came up with hiding parts of the spinning animation using overflow hidden. It
looks like it's spinning, although I make it look more like Earth and tweak the
timings.

This is the first website I have designed mobile-first, which has worked well.
The negative aspect of the menu is that it does not expand on larger screens to
remove an extra click to open the menu using the hamburger. But I kept it this
way due to my enjoyment of the animation and change in colour, similar to the
Starfield website. I didn't realise how different a cubic bezier could differ
from the default animations.

If I had more time, I would have polished the website for larger screens and
fixed the images, content and design.

## Inspiration

The website I used for inspiration from the menu, space elements and animations
is the [Starfield](https://bethesda.net/en/game/starfield) website.

I loved all the small details which brought it to life, from the elements fading
in and hover effects.

The menu animation on mobile view was also implemented on my website.

My website still has a long way to go as the design aspect is not there. The
images, font, spacing, and content need to be refined.

## Personal Notes / Dev Notes

**18/06/23**

Since I was working on projects for the previous cohort, I have a better idea of
what I would like my website to look like

The biggest problem is the deadline. As of writing this, I have less than a
month to complete the showcase and game.

**19/06/23**

With this deadline, I will implement the best I can; hopefully, it will be
enough.

Since I have little time, I will skip learning things too in-depth. Instead, I
will have to pick up the information I need to know as I go.

I will learn how to design properly later on. For now, I will create a basic
wireframe in Figma.

**20/06/23**

Now that I have completed a wireframe, I can start implementing and putting in
the details which are lacking from the low fidelity.

Wireframe -
https://www.figma.com/file/xY4LnrM7WDiDuyYQhsa6Ni/Showcase-website?type=design&node-id=0%3A1&t=3tUjJbEGDFRfwpzR-1

**22/06/23**

Navigation bar - Do the navigation bar first, as it will be present throughout
every viewport and is the topmost element.

Using SVGs, I created a hamburger. I learned this from
https://youtube.com/watch?v=R00QiudbD4Y&t=2658s

Now I need to give it functionality. I will do this myself as I want to depend
only partially on the tutorial.

**24/06/23**

Today I will make as much progress as possible, starting with the navigation,
then moving to the home/hero section and more.

I have implemented a navigation bar which I am quite happy with
functionality-wise. However, I could not solve an issue regarding the menu on
iPhone SE, which shows a white space meaning a container is not the right size I
could not debug; however, it only appears on this specific view.

Now it is time to work on the hero section.

Created a hero section with shooting star animations while it still needs polish
and the right colours. I am happy with it for now

**25/06/23**

The About section is complete functionality-wise also, as it is quite simple. I
will also complete the web development section today.

I have completed the web development section; however, as with all the other
sections, it is currently designed for mobile. I will later correct the whole
website for responsiveness and colour.

The code is also messy and unstructured; I must clean it up later.

**26/06/23**

I have run out of ideas for creating the last section of the website since I am
not happy with it. I will need to rethink this part.

**27/06/23**

Now that I have finished most of the basic design, I will refine the work and
add things. Since I am low on time, this will have to be hacked together as best
as possible.

**28/06/23**

Taking inspiration from other creators and implementing designs, I have more
confidence in my CSS as I can see how they made it. Mostly I need help with
colours and design as they are a whole extra skill to learn and hone. So I have
referenced most colours for the planets.

**29/06/23**

Stuck on making Saturn due to its split parts to create a visual of rings, I
will need a simpler version of it or use someone else's design.

**02/07/23**

I finished making Saturn after modelling it after a design I found. Now I can
finish up and write the content and submit this project.

**03/07/23**

I have run out of time to polish this website, write better content, and find
better images, but this will have to do, as there are only 13 days until the
deadline.
